# CONCEPT

The simulation consists of N different actors interacting with one another through the Hamiltonian.
Each actor goes and searches for a system configuration which has the highest individual gain.
(This means the gain for the actor, not to be confused with the total gain of all the actors combined).

## <a href="TreeData/Tree.html">Rationality Tree</a>
In this search for the best configuration, they build a rationality tree.
This is a tree that, starting from a starting configuration,
shows the different new configurations that can be generated by actors flipping their spin or not.
Let's assume France builds their rationality tree in our current example from starting configuration [1, -1, 1, 1].
France has to make a choice between two possibilities: It flips its spin or it does not.
These two possibilities lead to two branches in the tree.
Every branch accounts for a temporary configuration. Now the other actors come into play:
Either they flip their spin, this way generating N-1 new configurations or they don't, generating another new configuration.
Easy math shows that for every temporary configuration we now have N new configurations.

(For better visual understanding:
In the visualisation above, children of a parent configuration can be hidden with a click on the parent configuration )

### Extended Rationality
From every one of these N leaf configurations we build another tree and so on until we have a layer with every possible permutation of system configurations
(2^N that is).

### Limited Rationality
The tree is built until it reaches the limit of the level of rationality of the actor.

## Path Integral
Now that France has built its rationality tree, it can see which configuration has the highest individual gain.
(Assuming France has Extended Rationality, this is its system maximum.
If France has Limited Rationality this will be a local maximum.)

### Not already in maximum

Once France has discovered its highest gain (either system maximum or local maximum),
it will climb back up the tree from this configuration to the starting configuration.
This is the path.
Of course, The highest gain will always be a degenerate gain
(for starters because the system is symmetric for all actors flipping their spin simultaneously)
and so there will be multiple leaf configurations with this highest gain.
This means that there are multiple paths for France that lead them to their highest gain.

We have implemented a basic way of choosing which path to take:
France will not only follow a path that leads it to the configuration with its highest gain but will choose a path that also maximizes its gain along every step of the way.
This is a very basic path integral.
If there are multiple paths with the maximum path integral value, France will choose randomly between these.

### Already in maximum

If the highest discovered gain in the tree is identical to the gain in the starting configuration then France will decide to stay in the starting configuration.
It will not flip its spin.

#### Visualisation
I am still working on a path integral visualisation that shows the degeneracy for each path.
For now:
There is a <a href="PathIntegralData/paths.html">visualisation</a> that shows the different paths (but not the degeneracy)
and there is a visualisation that shows the degeneracy for every different <a href="DegeneracyData/Individual/IndividualGainHist.html">Individual Gain</a>
 and <a href="DegeneracyData/Total/GainHist.html">Total Gain</a>.

## End of the simulation
If the system stays in the same configuration for more than tree loops,
the simulation will assume that no actor can find a higher gain in another configuration and a stable configuration is found.
The simulation will end. Now we can watch what happened in the <a href="EvolutionData/Evolution.html">Evolution of the system</a> visualisation


